The President:
This week, the economists
who officially decide when
recessions start and end
declared the recession of 2008
to be over.
But if you're one of the
millions of Americans who lost
your home, your job, or your
savings as a consequence of the
recession, this news is of
little comfort or value.
Yes, the economy is growing
instead of shrinking,
as it was in 2008 and
the beginning of 2009.
We're gaining private sector
jobs each month instead of
losing 800,000, as we did
the month I took office.
But we have to keep pushing
to promote growth that will
generate the jobs we need, and
repair the terrible damage the
recession has done.
That's why I've proposed a
series of additional steps:
accelerated tax breaks for
businesses who buy equipment
now; a permanent research and
development tax break to promote
innovation by
American companies;
and a new initiative to rebuild
America's roads, rails,
and runways that will put folks
to work and make our country
more competitive.
Taken together with the small
business tax cut and lending
plan we passed through
Congress last week,
these steps will help spur
jobs in the short run,
and strengthen our
economy for the long run.
Now, the Republicans who want to
take over Congress offered their
own ideas the other day.
Many were the very same policies
that led to the economic crisis
in the first place,
which isn't surprising,
since many of their leaders were
among the architects of that
failed policy.
It's grounded in same worn
out philosophy: cut taxes for
millionaires and billionaires;
cut the rules for Wall Street
and the special interests; and
cut the middle class loose to
fend for itself.
That's not a prescription
for a better future.
It's an echo of a disastrous
decade we can't afford to relive.
The Republicans in Washington
claimed to draw their ideas from
a website called
"America Speaking Out."
It turns out that one of the
ideas that's drawn the most
interest on their website is
ending tax breaks for companies
that ship jobs overseas.
The funny thing is, when we recently closed one of the most
egregious loopholes for companies creating jobs
overseas, Republicans in Congress were almost unanimously opposed.
The Republican leader John
Boehner attacked us for it,
and stood up for outsourcing,
instead of American workers.
So, America may be speaking out,
but Republicans in Congress sure
aren't listening.
They want to put special
interests back in the driver's
seat in Washington.
They want to roll back the law
that will finally stop health
insurance companies from denying
you coverage on the basis of a
preexisting condition.
They want to repeal reforms that
will finally protect hardworking
families from hidden rates and
penalties every time they use a
credit card, make
a mortgage payment,
or take out a student loan.
And for all their talk about
reining in spending and getting
our deficits under control, they
want to borrow another $700
billion, and use it to give
tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires.
On average, that's a tax cut of
about $100,000 for millionaires.
Instead of cutting taxes
for the wealthiest few --
tax breaks we cannot afford -- I've called for tax cuts for
middle class families who saw their incomes shrink by 5%
during the last, lost decade.
We've already cut eight different taxes for small
business owners to help them hire and grow,
and we're going to cut eight more.
We're challenging our states
and schools to do a better job
educating our kids and making
college more affordable so
America can once more lead the
world in the proportion of our
children graduating from college.
And we're putting an end to the
days of taxpayer-funded bailouts
so Main Street never again
has to pay for Wall Street's mistakes.
America is a great country.
Our democracy is vibrant,
our economy is dynamic,
and our workers can
outcompete the best of them.
But the way for us to remain the
greatest country on Earth isn't
to turn back the clock and put
the special interests back in charge.
It's to make sure all our people
are getting a fair shake.
It's to make sure everyone who's
willing to work for it still has
a chance to reach for
the American dream.
And that will remain my mission
every single day so long as I
have the honor of
serving as President.
Have a nice weekend, everybody.